Terrain physics.
In this video, we'll cover what is unity terrain.
We'll learn how do we create terrain and add physics.
Finally, we'll create a new terrain inside the unity editor and interact with its physics.
First of all, what is terrain?
Well, video games may include organic areas like a planet surface.
Our game characters and other game items might walk around and interact on that surface.
For example, our main character, walking up a mountain.
The realistic physics interaction on this surface is what we call terrain physics.
So what is Unity's terrain system?
Unity's terrain system allows you to add vast landscapes to your game.
The Unity editor provides a selection of tools to create the terrain quickly and easily at runtime.
Terrain rendering is highly optimized for efficiency.
The characteristics of the terrain System.
It has an editable surface texture and editable surface geometry and an automated terrain collider.
For example, in this scene here, there's a terrain that I created and I have a series of different
balls falling on top of the surface and interacting with the surface like a real physics surface.
The terrain collider component.
It's what defines the collision surface for the same shape as the terrain.
So we have a game object with our typical transform component.
And then to set up this scenario, we need to add the terrain component, the terrain Collider, and
then the terrain data asset.
So what are the physical properties of terrain?
There's lots of settings here, but we'll focus on the physics ones of material.
That's a reference to the asset that describes how to handle colliding objects per friction and bouncing
us.
The terrain data is something we haven't seen yet.
It stores the height, maps or the surface of where the mountains and valleys are.
The detail mesh positions, Any tree instances you've added, you're able to add trees on top of the
surface to create a realistic scene and the terrain texture alpha maps enable tree colliders.
If you set it true, then you'll also include the geometry of the trees into the collision calculations.
So setting true here is more expensive, but it gives you the realistic result you may want, which
is that your character and other items would bounce off the trees in a believable way.
The thickness property here determines how thick the terrain will be in the vertical direction when
used with a terrain collider.
Any colliders found within this surface of thickness will be placed on top of the surface.
So let's create a terrain with physics.
We'll open up the terrain.
Begin scene will create a terrain.
We'll learn about editing it.
We'll create some following items on top to test out the physics.
We're going to be using terrain begin.
Here.
We've got a camera set up.
No terrain yet, so let's go ahead and create the terrain.
We're going to use Game object three D object terrain.
This creates a terrain in the middle of the world.
Now we're going to add some layers on top that we can use to paint the texture.
Will create three layers.
One for rock.
One for snow and one for grass.
And then we'll go ahead and instead of painting texture, first, we will raise and lower terrain.
With both the brushes and the terrain, we can adjust the size and opacity.
And then on to the mountains will paint the right texture.
There.
We've got some mountains with some snow and some different textures, and we'll notice that.
On the terrain.
We have the terrain card or automatically set up for us.
And let's go ahead and run the scene.
We'll also bring in the sponsor I have created to put some objects on top to test the physics.
We can see our yellow spawned objects are responding to the surface and collecting at low points, also
falling off the terrain.
Behaving with physics.
In the next section, we'll look at Unity C Sharp physics programming.